# Dark matter and elastic universe

## Elastic Universe

The theory I had as a kid was that the universe was like an elastic band. (NB: Under the assumption of multi-dimensional theory of everything - e.g. string theory, M-theory, etc).

Given that there's recursive problems when dealing with "God created the universe", and non-recurring problems with "just a single big bang", I had thought that the universe could go through cycles of birth-and-death.

Using an elastic band as an example, I thought that the big bang would stretch the universe out, whilst eventually contracting back to the centre due to the gravity that was generated by every individual mass/matter in the universe. (i.e. they'll all eventually attract each other back to the centre.)

That is, all the matter in the universe will clump into black holes, and their gravity should attract all the black holes back into the center, creating another singularity for a big bang.

## The problem: Dark matter prevents an elastic contraction

The problem was, given that it was like an elastic band, i.e. there is gravity, it should be a universe that is slowing down in expansion, but this is not the case, as scientists have devised what they call "dark matter" as the reason for the expansion.

This is the reason why the universe is accelerating.

However, to keep the elastic band universe theory true, I posit that the dark matter that stretches the elastic band farther and farther out will run out of "juice" at some point.

i.e. It's energy density will decrease over time.

## Dark matter has an inverse energy density, and exists outside the D-Brane (universe), but resides in a bounding box.

A simple way to imagine this is that there is a bounding box around the universe (D-Brane) such that the D-brane exists in it, and the dark matter exists outside of the D-brane, pulling and stretching it outwards to the edges of the bounding box.

The theory is this: Dark matter exists outside of the D-brane, which makes it "undetectable" in the D-brane, and that it has an inverse law being applied to it's energy density -- i.e. instead of Pressure = Force / Area, it's like 1 / Pressure = Force / Area -- i.e. its energy density decreases as the volume (or area) of space it occupies diminishes. This works backwards to how we perceive "energy density" -- but makes sense for what we consider something as "inverse energy".

At which point, when the D-brane reaches the edges of the bounding box, it has no dark matter energy, and will snap back to the centre, which will create another big bang, igniting another cycle of the universe.



```

+-------------------------------+
|       Dark matter             |
|				               |
|	/-------\                   |
|	| Universe|		           |
|	\_______/                   |
|	                            |
+-------------------------------+

```

This doesn't explain where the bounding box, universe, or dark matter came from, but at least gives a plausible explanation for a "recycling" of the universe, given "dark matter" and an expanding universe.

NB: It should be apparent that the expansion rate (acceleration) is a sigmoid curve -- i.e. it should slow down at some point, although it may not reach there for several billions of years. i.e. we still see it as 'accelerating faster and faster' because we have not reach the turning point of the sigmoid (logistic function)'s curve.

```

Energy density = J/m^3

Proposed idea for energy density of dark matter, as inverse to normal energy density: 

dark matter energy density = 1 / J/m^3 

= 1 / J/(bounding box volume - D-brane's size) 

= (bounding box volume - D-brane's size) / Joules.

```

i.e. when universe = bounding box size, 0 / joules = 0, therefore Dark matter will have no energy density, thus no longer able to stretch the universe any farther.

And when universe = 0, Dark matter will have the biggest amount of energy density, thus stretching the universe VERY fast -- Not sure if this is the reason why the universe expanded _faster_ than the speed of light at the initial big bang...

Also, as mentioned before, as this idea resolves the issue that we cannot detect dark matter (unlike dark energy), because it doesn't actually exist in this D-brane -- sort of like gravitons are attached to the D-brane to give strings mass, and can be disconnected from the strings to convert back into being massless.


## Justification for a bounding box

The only justification for a bounding box, is that it means that time for the universe has a limit, which can then be used to justify the inverse energy density of dark matter.


## Warp Drive / Jump Drive (wormholes)

Using dark matter, we can stretch the universe in whatever shape we want it, to the point where we can create two contacting points on the D-brane, such that a wormhole could exist...

Alternatively, we could use dark matter to create a warp bubble (as per Alcubierre drive).

The question is, how do we manipulate dark matter?

One of the possibilities is using a cascading attack on dark matter -- the butterfly effect -- based off Navier Stokes, to create turbulence that directs the entirety of dark matter to warp the universe the way we want it, to create a wormhole.. (perhaps by shooting gravitons at it, which escape the D-brane and hit the dark matter...?)

- Navier Stokes
- Dark matter outside of D-brane, but inside bounding box.
- Stretching/warping the D-brane (universe) to contact two far end-points, to create a wormhole. 
- OR alternatively creating a small warp bubble. (Dark matter in this sense is the negative energy required to by Alcubierre).


Anti-gravity / Gravity 

As you know, you can Q.E. things so there should be no problem going against gravity using Q.E. - or creating artificial gravity...

Thus, space ships like Star Trek ships can be created.

But for "anti-gravity" (as per flying disc UFOs in science-fiction), it'd need something like a graviton with negative value (negative mass).

